puzzle 1
Consider tenth person saying black if black caps are even, else white.(he can view all 9 persons in front)
Say he says black
Now the second person can guess by counting no. of black caps in front of him . ( if odd then he is wearing black cap  as total blacks are even told by first , 
else if he sees even black caps then it must mean he has white cap )
similarly he can guess if 10th person says white initially .

Thus every person can tell his cap after 10th person.
So max 9 people saved

puzzle 2
Now we have 10 persons but 3 hats . Here we can't just use odd even as we don't have 2 colors .
So 
10th person will say Red if there are odd no. of red hats upto 8th prisoner, Black if there are odd no. of black  hats upto prisoner 8 , 
White if odd no. of whites upto prisoner 8th .
Now the 9th person can count upto 8 to guess ,
Say 10th says Red

puzzle 3
H -> coin either will be heavier or equal 
L -> coin either lighter or equal 
E -> Coin is normal
APPROACH TO FIND THE COUNTERFEIT COIN
let Initially all 12 coins 
? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?

Compare 4 ? each  
(TURN 1)

? ? ? ?  vs  ? ? ? ?   and ? ? ? ? left 
CASE 1 : Balanced .
The coins are E E E E E E E E and ? ? ? ?
Compare 3 Es and 3 ?s   (TURN 2)
? ? ? vs E E Es  
Case 1a :
Balanced. Thus 11 Es and 1 ? . ( TURN 3)
Compare ? vs E to get whether the counterfeit coin is heavy or light .
Case 1b :
Imbalanced. So either L L L or H H H :
1b i) L L L -> Compare 2 Ls . if equal third L is counterfeit lighter else the one going up is counterfeit lighter . (TURN 3)
1b ii)H H H -> Compare 2 Hs. if equal third H is counterfeit heavier else the one going down is counterfeit heavier .(TURN 3)


CASE 2 :
IMBALANCED 
H H H H   L L L L   E E E E are the present coins .
(TURN 2)
Compare   L L L H  vs  E E E L
Case 2a: Balanced .  We have  3 Hs remeaining . Compare 2 of them if any goes down its heavy counterfeit . else third H is heavy counterfeit
Case 2a i) E E E L goes up, so either L of this is lighter else H of L L L H is heavier. Compare H vs E (if goes down H heavy counterfeit else L light counterfeit)
Case 2b ii)L L L H goes up E E E L goes down. So 3 of  L L L is lighter counterfeit(as H heavier case rejected)
Compare 2 Ls. one going up is lighter counterfeit else 3rd L is light counterfeit. 

